Well, well, well, you guys are doing
absolutely great in no time.
You have learned a lot
of things in Node js, right?
So in this particular video, let's
hop and create a server for us.
But guys, before creating a server,
let's understand
what the server thing is, right?
That is more important.
So what we are going to do
is we are going to create
an HTTP server, okay?
And but before that, let's
understand that what is this HTTP?
What is the server?
What is a request, what
is response, all that.
So HTTP stands for hyper Text
transfer protocol.
So that means it's basically
a protocol for transferring
the information on the Internet.
Okay, how it works?
So you, so whenever you talk
about APIs, whenever you talk
about Internet or servers,
there are two components.
One is you.
You are who, you are a client, right?
You are a client.
So let's say that this is a client.
Client can be a machine, it
can be a mobile phone,
a laptop, a MacBook, anything.
On the other hand, you have
what, you have a server.
Okay?
Now what is a server?
Now don't think you know that this
server is something very fancy
thing or something like that.
No, it's just a machine
that is connected to the Internet
number one, it has a public IP
address and it has a public
facing IP address, right?
So it can be on Amazon Web Services,
it can be Azure, it
can be Google Server,
or even it can be a bare metal.
Bare metal basically means that
it's a server which is on
at your home, at your office.
Okay?
So the only thing is that
because this is a server number
one, it's a 24, 7 on machine.
So it's, it's 24 by 7,
you know, uptime.
But plus it has a public facing IP.
Public facing static IP,
public facing static IP.
So let's say that this particular
server has an IP address of maybe
something like 10, you know, 24.1.2.
So just random address
I have written.
So this is a server.
Now what this client can do,
client basically sends
a request to a server, right?
So client always sends a request
request that hey, I want to do
this, I want to do that, I want to
do this stuff, I want that, I want
to create this resource, I want to
create a tweet, I want to upload a
video.
It's a request.
Your server is responsible
for processing this request.
Now this request can be
anything for example.
So it can be a request to get
some data, it can be request
to post some data, it can be
a request to delete some data.
Any kind of request.
Now, at this point, as a part of
processing this request, it
says, like, first of all, you
have to authenticate that if
this particular user is allowed
to, like, you know, access that
particular resource, you do
authorization.
That if, right, if there is
an authority, then you do
validation check and all that.
And then you finally process.
So whatever is needed.
Now this processing part that
I have written at the end, okay,
this processing part
can be a database operation.
So your server actually can be
connected to a database, right?
So database can be.
Your Postgres database can be
there, your MongoDB is there.
So you have a lot of databases.
It can be a simple
MySQL database, right?
It can be a MySQL database.
So any kind of database
is actually here.
So these are few databases
that we can cover.
Okay, so very simple, no,
hard and fast thing there.
So this particular server is like
connected to this database.
So it is doing some read and write
operations in the database.
And once the server has done
its work, it is going to return
something known as response.
So that means at the end it's just a,
request and a response.
Client sends a request, server
accepts the request,
do a lot of magical things in it,
and sends back a response.
And this is what is known as a,
request response cycle.
Okay, so this is a cycle, and this
cycle makes the client server
communication possible, right?